=head1 NAME

pipic -  send commands and read data from PiPIC

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pipic> B<-a> i2c address [B<-c> command [B<-d> data] | B<-r> b|w|W] 
[B<-h>] [B<-v>] [B<-V>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pipic> is used to send commands to a PIC processor on i2c bus connected
to Raspberry Pi. The command is one byte of data and is given with option
B<-c> as a decimal integer 0-255. The command byte can be followed by
one to four bytes of parameter data. The parameter is given with switch
B<-d> as a decimal integer with 'b', 'w' or 'W' at end. The PIC processor 
has the necessary command interpretation loop programmed in. After the 
command has been executed the possible results can be read with option B<-r>
by specifying the length of data 'b' for byte, 'w' for 16-bit word and
'W' for 32-bit word. 

=head1 OPTIONS

B<-a> chip address on i2c bus

B<-c> send command byte to PIC

B<-d> data byte (b), 16-bit word (w) or 32-bit word (W) after command byte

B<-r> read byte, 16-bit word or 32-bit words from PIC

B<-h> display a short help text

B<-v> verbose

B<-V> print version

=head1 COMMANDS

0x00 do nothing

0x01 0xNN read byte from file address and write it to output buffer

0x02 0xNNNNNNNN write four bytes to transmit buffer, used for debugging

0x10 clear GPIO0=0 output

0x11 clear GPIO1=0 output

0x14 clear GPIO4=0 output

0x15 clear GPIO5=0 output

0x20 set GPIO0=1 output

0x21 set GPIO1=1 output

0x24 set GPIO4=1 output

0x25 set GPIO5=1 output

0x30 0xNN write byte to GPIO

0x31 0xNN write byte to TRISIO

0x32 0xNN AND GPIO with byte

0x33 0xNN OR GPIO with byte

0x34 0xNN XOR GPIO with byte

0x40 read analog input AN0

0x41 read analog input AN1

0x43 read analog input AN3

0x50 reset timer

0x51 read timer

=head1 EXAMPLE

Test i2c communication 

B<pipic> B<-a> 38 B<-c> 2 B<-d> 1375211866W B<-r> W

Set GPIO5 output to "1", chip address 0x26 (or 38) and command 0x25 (or 37)

B<pipic> B<-a> 38 B<-c> 37 

This assumes that GP5 has been configured as digital output.

Read status register at address 0x03 from PIC12f675, chip address 0x26 (or 38)

B<pipic> B<-a> 38 B<-c> 1 B<-d> 3b B<-r> b

Read analog voltage from AN0

B<pipic> B<-a> 38 B<-c> 64 B<-r> w

This assumes that GP0 has been configured as analog input.

=head1 WARNING

No checking is done where the data is written. Could make some hardware 
unusable.

=head1 AUTHORS

Jaakko Koivuniemi 

=head1 SEE ALSO

pipicfile(1), i2cdetect(8), i2cset(8), i2cget(8)

